doc/start/get-involved.rst, before:

.. _Get Involved:

=====================================
 Get Involved in the Ceph Community!
=====================================

These are exciting times in the Ceph community! Get involved!

+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
|Channel               | Description                                     | Contact Info                                  |
+======================+=================================================+===============================================+
| **Blog**             | Check the Ceph Blog_ periodically to keep track | http://ceph.com/community/blog/               |
|                      | of Ceph progress and important announcements.   |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Planet Ceph**      | Check the blog aggregation on Planet Ceph for   | https://old.ceph.com/category/planet/         |
|                      | interesting stories, information and            |                                               |
|                      | experiences from the community. **NOTE: NO      |                                               |
|                      | longer updated as of 2023.**                    |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Wiki**             | Check the Ceph Wiki is a source for more        | http://wiki.ceph.com/                         |
|                      | community and development related topics. You   |                                               |
|                      | can find there information about blueprints,    |                                               |
|                      | meetups, the Ceph Developer Summits and more.   |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **IRC**              | As you delve into Ceph, you may have questions  |                                               |
|                      | or feedback for the Ceph development team. Ceph | - **Domain:**                                 |
|                      | developers are often available on the ``#ceph`` |     ``irc.oftc.net``                          |
|                      | IRC channel particularly during daytime hours   | - **Channels:**                               |
|                      | in the US Pacific Standard Time zone.           |     ``#ceph``,                                |
|                      | While ``#ceph`` is a good starting point for    |     ``#ceph-devel``,                          |
|                      | cluster operators and users, there is also      |     ``#ceph-dashboard``,                      |
|                      | ``#ceph-devel``, ``#ceph-dashboard`` and        |     ``#cephfs``                               |
|                      | ``#cephfs`` dedicated for Ceph developers.      |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **User List**        | Ask and answer user-related questions by        |                                               |
|                      | subscribing to the email list at                | - `User Subscribe`_                           |
|                      | ceph-users@ceph.io. You can opt out of the email| - `User Unsubscribe`_                         |
|                      | list at any time by unsubscribing. A simple     | - `User Archives`_                            |
|                      | email is all it takes!                          |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Devel List**       | Keep in touch with developer activity by        |                                               |
|                      | subscribing to the email list at dev@ceph.io.   | - `Devel Subscribe`_                          |
|                      | You can opt out of the email list at any time by| - `Devel Unsubscribe`_                        |
|                      | unsubscribing. A simple email is all it takes!  | - `Devel Archives`_                           |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Kernel Client**    | Linux kernel-related traffic, including kernel  | - `Kernel Client Subscribe`_                  |
|                      | patches and discussion of implementation details| - `Kernel Client Unsubscribe`_                |
|                      | for the kernel client code.                     | - `Kernel Client Archives`_                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Commit List**      | Subscribe to ceph-commit@ceph.com to get        |                                               |
|                      | commit notifications via email. You can opt out | - `Commit Subscribe`_                         |
|                      | of the email list at any time by unsubscribing. | - `Commit Unsubscribe`_                       |
|                      | A simple email is all it takes!                 | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **QA List**          | For Quality Assurance (QA) related activities   |                                               |
|                      | subscribe to this list. You can opt out         | - `QA Subscribe`_                             |
|                      | of the email list at any time by unsubscribing. | - `QA Unsubscribe`_                           |
|                      | A simple email is all it takes!                 | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Community List**   | For all discussions related to the Ceph User    |                                               |
|                      | Committee and other community topics. You can   | - `Community Subscribe`_                      |
|                      | opt out of the email list at any time by        | - `Community Unsubscribe`_                    |
|                      | unsubscribing. A simple email is all it takes!  | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Bug Tracker**      | You can help keep Ceph production worthy by     | http://tracker.ceph.com/projects/ceph         |
|                      | filing and tracking bugs, and providing feature |                                               |
|                      | requests using the Bug Tracker_.                |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Source Code**      | If you would like to participate in             |                                               |
|                      | development, bug fixing, or if you just want    | - http://github.com/ceph/ceph                 |
|                      | the very latest code for Ceph, you can get it   | - http://download.ceph.com/tarballs/          |
|                      | at http://github.com. See `Ceph Source Code`_   |                                               |
|                      | for details on cloning from github.             |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Ceph Calendar**    | Learn about upcoming Ceph events.               | https://ceph.io/contribute/                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+



.. _Devel Subscribe: mailto:dev-request@ceph.io?body=subscribe
.. _Devel Unsubscribe: mailto:dev-request@ceph.io?body=unsubscribe
.. _Kernel Client Subscribe: mailto:majordomo@vger.kernel.org?body=subscribe+ceph-devel
.. _Kernel Client Unsubscribe: mailto:majordomo@vger.kernel.org?body=unsubscribe+ceph-devel
.. _User Subscribe: mailto:ceph-users-request@ceph.io?body=subscribe
.. _User Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-users-request@ceph.io?body=unsubscribe
.. _Community Subscribe: mailto:ceph-community-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _Community Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-community-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _Commit Subscribe: mailto:ceph-commit-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _Commit Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-commit-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _QA Subscribe: mailto:ceph-qa-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _QA Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-qa-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _Devel Archives: https://lists.ceph.io/hyperkitty/list/dev@ceph.io/
.. _User Archives: https://lists.ceph.io/hyperkitty/list/ceph-users@ceph.io/
.. _Kernel Client Archives: https://www.spinics.net/lists/ceph-devel/
.. _Mailing list archives: http://lists.ceph.com/
.. _Blog: http://ceph.com/community/blog/
.. _Tracker: http://tracker.ceph.com/
.. _Ceph Source Code: http://github.com/ceph/ceph

Commit message:

doc/start: add Slack to get-involved
Add a link to the Ceph Slack to doc/start/get-involved.rst.

Signed-off-by: Zac Dover <zac.dover@proton.me>

doc/start/get-involved.rst, after:

.. _Get Involved:

=====================================
 Get Involved in the Ceph Community!
=====================================

These are exciting times in the Ceph community! Get involved!

+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
|Channel               | Description                                     | Contact Info                                  |
+======================+=================================================+===============================================+
| **Blog**             | Check the Ceph Blog_ periodically to keep track | http://ceph.com/community/blog/               |
|                      | of Ceph progress and important announcements.   |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Planet Ceph**      | Check the blog aggregation on Planet Ceph for   | https://old.ceph.com/category/planet/         |
|                      | interesting stories, information and            |                                               |
|                      | experiences from the community. **NOTE: NO      |                                               |
|                      | longer updated as of 2023.**                    |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Wiki**             | Check the Ceph Wiki is a source for more        | http://wiki.ceph.com/                         |
|                      | community and development related topics. You   |                                               |
|                      | can find there information about blueprints,    |                                               |
|                      | meetups, the Ceph Developer Summits and more.   |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **IRC**              | As you delve into Ceph, you may have questions  |                                               |
|                      | or feedback for the Ceph development team. Ceph | - **Domain:**                                 |
|                      | developers are often available on the ``#ceph`` |     ``irc.oftc.net``                          |
|                      | IRC channel particularly during daytime hours   | - **Channels:**                               |
|                      | in the US Pacific Standard Time zone.           |     ``#ceph``,                                |
|                      | While ``#ceph`` is a good starting point for    |     ``#ceph-devel``,                          |
|                      | cluster operators and users, there is also      |     ``#ceph-dashboard``,                      |
|                      | ``#ceph-devel``, ``#ceph-dashboard`` and        |     ``#cephfs``                               |
|                      | ``#cephfs`` dedicated for Ceph developers.      |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Slack**            | Since 2023, the Upstream Ceph community has     |                                               |
|                      | maintained a community in Slack. Ask your Ceph- | https://ceph-storage.slack.com/               |
|                      | related questions in Ceph's Slack channels.     |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **User List**        | Ask and answer user-related questions by        |                                               |
|                      | subscribing to the email list at                | - `User Subscribe`_                           |
|                      | ceph-users@ceph.io. You can opt out of the email| - `User Unsubscribe`_                         |
|                      | list at any time by unsubscribing. A simple     | - `User Archives`_                            |
|                      | email is all it takes!                          |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Devel List**       | Keep in touch with developer activity by        |                                               |
|                      | subscribing to the email list at dev@ceph.io.   | - `Devel Subscribe`_                          |
|                      | You can opt out of the email list at any time by| - `Devel Unsubscribe`_                        |
|                      | unsubscribing. A simple email is all it takes!  | - `Devel Archives`_                           |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Kernel Client**    | Linux kernel-related traffic, including kernel  | - `Kernel Client Subscribe`_                  |
|                      | patches and discussion of implementation details| - `Kernel Client Unsubscribe`_                |
|                      | for the kernel client code.                     | - `Kernel Client Archives`_                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Commit List**      | Subscribe to ceph-commit@ceph.com to get        |                                               |
|                      | commit notifications via email. You can opt out | - `Commit Subscribe`_                         |
|                      | of the email list at any time by unsubscribing. | - `Commit Unsubscribe`_                       |
|                      | A simple email is all it takes!                 | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **QA List**          | For Quality Assurance (QA) related activities   |                                               |
|                      | subscribe to this list. You can opt out         | - `QA Subscribe`_                             |
|                      | of the email list at any time by unsubscribing. | - `QA Unsubscribe`_                           |
|                      | A simple email is all it takes!                 | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Community List**   | For all discussions related to the Ceph User    |                                               |
|                      | Committee and other community topics. You can   | - `Community Subscribe`_                      |
|                      | opt out of the email list at any time by        | - `Community Unsubscribe`_                    |
|                      | unsubscribing. A simple email is all it takes!  | - `Mailing list archives`_                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Bug Tracker**      | You can help keep Ceph production worthy by     | http://tracker.ceph.com/projects/ceph         |
|                      | filing and tracking bugs, and providing feature |                                               |
|                      | requests using the Bug Tracker_.                |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Source Code**      | If you would like to participate in             |                                               |
|                      | development, bug fixing, or if you just want    | - http://github.com/ceph/ceph                 |
|                      | the very latest code for Ceph, you can get it   | - http://download.ceph.com/tarballs/          |
|                      | at http://github.com. See `Ceph Source Code`_   |                                               |
|                      | for details on cloning from github.             |                                               |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| **Ceph Calendar**    | Learn about upcoming Ceph events.               | https://ceph.io/contribute/                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+



.. _Devel Subscribe: mailto:dev-request@ceph.io?body=subscribe
.. _Devel Unsubscribe: mailto:dev-request@ceph.io?body=unsubscribe
.. _Kernel Client Subscribe: mailto:majordomo@vger.kernel.org?body=subscribe+ceph-devel
.. _Kernel Client Unsubscribe: mailto:majordomo@vger.kernel.org?body=unsubscribe+ceph-devel
.. _User Subscribe: mailto:ceph-users-request@ceph.io?body=subscribe
.. _User Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-users-request@ceph.io?body=unsubscribe
.. _Community Subscribe: mailto:ceph-community-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _Community Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-community-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _Commit Subscribe: mailto:ceph-commit-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _Commit Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-commit-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _QA Subscribe: mailto:ceph-qa-join@lists.ceph.com
.. _QA Unsubscribe: mailto:ceph-qa-leave@lists.ceph.com
.. _Devel Archives: https://lists.ceph.io/hyperkitty/list/dev@ceph.io/
.. _User Archives: https://lists.ceph.io/hyperkitty/list/ceph-users@ceph.io/
.. _Kernel Client Archives: https://www.spinics.net/lists/ceph-devel/
.. _Mailing list archives: http://lists.ceph.com/
.. _Blog: http://ceph.com/community/blog/
.. _Tracker: http://tracker.ceph.com/
.. _Ceph Source Code: http://github.com/ceph/ceph
